---
date: 2017-01-16
title: Github Helper
permalink: /helper-github
categories:
  - helpers
description: Using the Github helper
type: Document
tags: [helpers]
---

Github is the default client. To use Github, you can optionally create a 
<a href="https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line/" target="_blank">
 personal access token</a> for submission using the API, or skip to have HelpMe generate and open a URL for you. 

## Generating an Access Token
You can call it whatever you like (`helpme-client` in the example below) and
check the box for the scope "repo." You should export the token to your environment.

```bash
export HELPME_GITHUB_TOKEN=xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
```

If provided, the token will be found the first time you run the client, and cached in your `$HOME/helpme.cfg`
file. If you are interested in how this works, see the [developer](/helpme/docs-development) documentation.

## Ask for Help
The main command will be to ask for help from Github. This means we will do the following:

 - Ask you for the repository unique resource identifier, in the format owner/repo
 - Ask you to describe the issue that you are having
 - (optional) record an asciinema to show us what is going on
 - (optional) you can choose to include a whitelisted set of environment variables

Let's show the most common use case, we can either ask for help for general Github,
and then be prompted for the repository. You will be asked to enter a Github repository if you
don't provide one on the command line, and then if you want to record an asciinema.

```bash
$ helpme github
[helpme|github]
Hello Friend! I'll help you post a Github issue today.
What is the Github repository to post to? (e.g., username/reponame): 
```

or you can give the name of the repository off the bat, and skip this prompt. 
In the example below, I'm asking to post an issue to this repo, vsoch/helpme.

```bash
$ helpme github vsoch/helpme
[helpme|github]
Hello Friend! I'll help you post a Github issue today.
Please describe the issue you are having: I want to post a test issue for HelpMe Github!
Would you like to send a terminal recording?
Please enter your choice [Y/N/y/n] : Y
asciinema: recording asciicast to /tmp/helpme.5hcz3w6v.json
asciinema: press <ctrl-d> or type "exit" when you're done
Now using node v8.10.0 (npm v5.6.0)
vanessa@vanessa-ThinkPad-T460s:~/Documents/Dropbox/Code/researchapps/helpme/helpme-cli$ echo "Look at my awesome terminal! So many issues..."
Look at my awesome terminal! So many issues...
vanessa@vanessa-ThinkPad-T460s:~/Documents/Dropbox/Code/researchapps/helpme/helpme-cli$ exit
exit
asciinema: recording finished
asciinema: asciicast saved to /tmp/helpme.5hcz3w6v.json
Asciinema  If you need to run helpme again you can give
                    the path to this file with  --asciinema /tmp/helpme.5hcz3w6v.json
Environment  USER|TERM|SHELL|PATH|LD_LIBRARY_PATH|PWD|JAVA_HOME|LANG|HOME|DISPLAY
Is this list ok to share?
Please enter your choice [Y/N/y/n] : Y
https://www.github.com/vsoch/helpme/issues
[submit=>github]
```

If I need to do it again, I can supply the asciinema on the command line.

```bash
$ helpme github --asciinema /tmp/helpme.5hcz3w6v.json vsoch/helpme 
```

And [here is the issue created](https://github.com/vsoch/helpme/issues/12)!
Awesome!

## Headless

If you have a python library and want to headlessly submit an issue, you can
easily do that from within Python. 

### A Simple Example
Here is the simplest use case - just providing
a repository.

```python
from helpme.main import get_helper
helper = get_helper(name="github")
```

By default, the helper will not require a GitHub token (HELPME_GITHUB_TOKEN exported
to the environment) and will interactively open the browser for the user. However,
if you need to ensure that the token is provided, just add the argument:

```python
helper = get_helper(name="github", require_token=True)
```

The client will exit with an error message if the token is not found.
Now, for the simplest use case (either with or without the token)
you can just provide a repository.

```python
helper.run_headless(repo="rseng/github-support")
```

The above will return the user's system information, along with environment.

### Add Additional Error Context

However, you likely want to provide a little more context about the error. 
The function also accepts an argument for title or body, and an identifier
string that can be used to generate a hash that would uniquely identify
the issue for further action once on GitHub. In the example below, 
we use <a href="https://github.com/datalad/datalad" target="_blank">datalad</a> 
to generate a dictionary of output, and we will submit it to the repository `datalad/datalad-helpme`.

```python
from datalad.api import wtf 
repo = "datalad/datalad-helpme"
body = "<details>\n\n%s</details>" % wtf()
```

Notice that we are putting the body in a details div - this html element
will hide most of the data (which is dumped json) in the actual issue, and
make it easier to parse further (if desired). Next, let's run the
helper headlessly. Note that this will currently still confirm the
environment variables being sent from the user.

```python
helper.run_headless(repo=repo, body=body, title=title)
```

The above will still require confirmation to send the user environment,
and then will post the issue to `datalad/datalad-helpme`.

### Eliminate Confirmation

The user is prompted to confirm the whitelisted set of environment variables:

```python
Environment  USER|TERM|SHELL|PATH|LD_LIBRARY_PATH|PWD|JAVA_HOME|LANG|HOME|DISPLAY
Is this list ok to share?
Please enter your choice [Y/N/y/n] :
```

For a totally headless and automated route, just set `confirm` to False.

```python
helper = get_helper(name="github", confirm=False)
```

### Provide Identifier

A string can be provided that will be converted to an md5 hash and written
at the bottom of the issue. It's useful to derive this from some string
that could uniquely be used to identify the error (such as a message or
metadata from an error traceback).

```python
try:
    import thisdoesnotexist
except Exception as exc:
    helper.run_headless(repo=repo, body=body, title=title, identifier=exc.msg)
```

Given an identifier, you can use a GitHub workflow (responding to new issues)
to parse and then categorize the issue, and update some flat file database
(perhaps stored in a support repository?) and post an update on the issue, for
example:

 > This issue is a duplicate of #4, closing
 > This issue has been assigned to @vsoch

The action that you choose to take is up to you! We will post example
workflows here when they are finished.
